<!--
## TODO

- Let `package.json` specify a version range? It seems like a nice feature to have, but it means we’d have to introduce a dependency to resolve the ranges, and we’d have to implement some form of locking logic. It doesn’t seem to be worth it.
-->

# Radically Straightforward · Caddy

**☁️ Install [Caddy](https://caddyserver.com/) as an npm package**

## Installation

```console
$ npm install @radically-straightforward/caddy
```

> **Note:** For quick-and-easy testing you may run Caddy from the command line with `npx` instead of installing it explicitly:
>
> ```console
> $ npx @radically-straightforward/caddy
> ```

> **Note:** By default the latest version of Caddy is installed. You may specify a version in `package.json` with a `caddy` property, for example:
>
> `package.json`
>
> ```json
> {
>   "caddy": "2.7.5"
> }
> ```

> **Note:** The Caddy binary is installed under `node_modules/.bin/`, along with other binaries for npm packages.

## Usage

```console
$ npx caddy
```

> **Note:** If the command above doesn’t work, which may happen in particular on Windows, use the path to the binary instead of `npx`:
>
> ```console
> > .\node_modules\.bin\caddy
> ```

---

Besides the Caddy binary, `@radically-straightforward/caddy` also comes with helpers to define a [Caddyfile](https://caddyserver.com/docs/quick-starts/caddyfile).

```typescript
import caddyfile from "@radically-straightforward/caddy";
import * as caddy from "@radically-straightforward/caddy";
```

<!-- DOCUMENTATION START: ./source/index.mts -->

### `Caddyfile`

```typescript
export type Caddyfile = string;
```

A type alias to make your type annotations more specific.

### `caddyfile()`

```typescript
export default function caddyfile(
  templateStrings: TemplateStringsArray,
  ...substitutions: Caddyfile[]
): Caddyfile;
```

A [tagged template](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals#tagged_templates) for [Caddyfile](https://caddyserver.com/docs/quick-starts/caddyfile).

### `header()`

```typescript
export function header({
  email = undefined,
  hstsPreload = false,
}: {
  email?: string;
  hstsPreload?: boolean;
} = {}): Caddyfile;
```

A Caddyfile header that defines:

- [Global options](https://caddyserver.com/docs/caddyfile/options) that:

  - Turn off administrative interface.

  - Set an `email` to the system administrator, which is used for contacting about certificates. If an `email` isn’t provided, then the server is run in development mode with local self-signed certificates.

- A [snippet](https://caddyserver.com/docs/caddyfile/concepts#snippets) named `(common)` including:

  - The `Cache-Control no-store` header, which turns off HTTP caching. This is the best setting for dynamic parts of the application: in the best case the cache may be stale, and in the worst case the cache may include private information that could outlive signing out. For static files, we recommend that you overwrite this header to enable caching, for example, `header Cache-Control "public, max-age=31536000, immutable"`.

  - The `Content-Security-Policy` header, which allows the application to retrieve content from the same origin only. Inline styles are allowed. Objects and frames are disabled. If you need to serve images from third-party websites (for example, which may have been included as part of content generated by users), setup a content proxy (it also solves the potential issue of [mixed content](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Mixed_content)).

  - The `Cross-Origin` headers, which allow only the same origin to load content from the application. This is the converse of the `Content-Security-Policy` header. For files that you wish to allow embedding in other origins, set the `header Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy cross-origin` header.

  - The `Referrer-Policy no-referrer` header, which tells the browser to not send the `Referer` request header. This makes the application more secure because external links don’t leak information about the URL that the user was on.

  - The `Strict-Transport-Security` header, which tells the browser that moving forward it should only attempt to load this origin with HTTPS (not HTTP). The `hstsPreload` parameter controls whether to set the [`preload` option](https://hstspreload.org/)—by default it’s `false`, but it’s recommended that you opt into preloading by setting `hstsPreload: true`.

  - The `Origin-Agent-Cluster` header, which tells the browser to try and isolate the process running the application.

  - The `X-Content-Type-Options` header, which turns off `Content-Type` sniffing, because the application may break if content sniffing goes wrong, and content sniffing needs access to the response body but the response may be unavailable in streaming responses. Make sure to set the `Content-Type` header appropriately.

  - The `X-DNS-Prefetch-Control` header, which disables DNS prefetching, because DNS prefetching could leak information about the application to potentially untrusted DNS servers.

  - The `X-Frame-Options` header, which disallows the application from being embedded in an iframe by another page.

  - The `X-Permitted-Cross-Domain-Policies` header, which disallows the application from being embedded in a PDF, a Flash document, and so forth.

  - Removing the `Server` and `X-Powered-By`, which identify what server the application is running.

  - The `Permissions-Policy` header, which opts the application out of [FLoC](https://web.dev/articles/floc).

  - Enabling compression for better performance.

An example of using the (`common`) snippet, including a server that tries to serve a static file if it exists, and failing that, reverse proxies to the dynamic part of the application:

```caddyfile
${caddy.header()}

https://localhost {
  import common

  route {
    root * ./static/
    @file_exists file
    route @file_exists {
      header Cache-Control "public, max-age=31536000, immutable"
      file_server
    }
  }

  reverse_proxy http://localhost:8000 http://localhost:8001 {
    lb_retries 1
  }

  handle_errors {
    import common
  }
}

${caddy.httpRedirect("localhost")}
```

### `redirect()`

```typescript
export function redirect(
  fromHostname: string,
  toHostname: string,
  type: "temporary" | "permanent" = "temporary",
): Caddyfile;
```

Set an HTTP redirect. Useful, for example, for redirecting alternative hostnames to the main hostname of the application.

### `httpRedirect()`

```typescript
export function httpRedirect(hostnames: string | string[]): Caddyfile;
```

Redirect HTTP → HTTPS.

> **Note:** Caddy can set this up automatically, but it doesn’t include the security headers in `(common)`.

<!-- DOCUMENTATION END: ./source/index.mts -->

## Related Work

### [`caddy-npm`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/caddy-npm)

Only supports specific versions of Caddy and requires an update to the package itself when a new version of Caddy is released. At the time of this writing (2023-11-14) the latest supported version is Caddy 2.1.1 from 2020-06-20 (more than three years old).

`@radically-straightforward/caddy`, on the other hand, supports new versions of Caddy as soon as they’re released.
